now Jacob heard the words of Laban sons
Jacob has taken away all that was our
fathers and from what was our fathers he
has acquired all this wealth and Jacob
saw the countenance of Laban and indeed
it was not favorable toward him as
before then the Lord said to Jacob
return to the land of your father's and
to your family and I will be with you
so Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah
to the field to his flock I see your
father's countenance that it is not
favorable toward me as before but the
god of my father has been with me and
you know that with all my might I have
served your father yet your father has
deceived me and changed my wages ten
times but God did not allow him to hurt
me if he said thus the speckled shall be
your wages than all the flocks for
speckled and if he said thus the
streaked shall be your wages then all
the flocks for streaked so God has taken
away the livestock of your father and
given them to me and it happened at the
time when the flux conceived that I
lifted my eyes and saw in a dream and
behold the rams which leaped upon the
flocks were streaked speckled and gray
spotted then the angel of God spoke to
me in a dream saying Jacob and I said
Here I am
and he said lift your eyes now and see
all the rams which sleep on the flocks
are streaked speckled and gray spotted
for I have seen all that Laban is doing
to you I am the God of Bethel where you
anointed the pillar and where you made a
vow to me
now arise get out of this land and
return to the land of your family bring
Rachel and Leah answered is there still
any portion or inheritance for us in our
father's house
are we not considered strangers by him
for he has sold us and also completely
consumed our money for all these riches
which God has taken from our Father are
really ours and our children's now then
whatever God has said to you do it then
Jacob rose and said his sons and his
wives on camels and he carried away all
his livestock and all his possessions
which he had gained his acquired
livestock which he had gained in Paden
era to go to his father Isaac in the
land of Canaan
now Laban had gone to share his sheep
and Rachel had stolen the household
idols that were her father's and Jacob
stole away unknown to Laban the Syrian
in that he did not tell him that he
intended to flee so he fled with all but
he had he arose and crossed the river
and headed toward the mountains of
Gilead and Laban was told on the third
day that Jacob had fled then he took his
brethren with him and pursued him for
seven days journey and he overtook him
in the mountains of Gilead but God had
come to Laban the Syrian in a dream by
night and said to him be careful that
you speak to Jacob neither good nor bad
so Laban overtook Jacob now Jacob had
pitched his tent in the mountains and
Laban with his brethren pitched in the
mountains of Gilead and Laban said to
Jacob what have you done that you have
stolen away unknown to me and carried
away my daughters like captives taken
with the sword why did you flee away
secretly and steal away from me and not
tell me for I might have sent you away
with joy songs with timbrel and harp and
you did not allow me to kiss my sons and
my daughters now you have done foolishly
in so doing it is in my power to do you
harm but the god of your father spoke to
me last night saying be careful that you
speak to Jacob neither good nor bad
and now you are surely gone because you
greatly longed for your father's house
but why did you steal my God's because I
was afraid for I said perhaps you would
take your daughters from me by force
with whomever you find your gods do not
let him live in the presence of our
brethren identify what I have of yours
and take it with you for Jacob did not
know that Rachel had stolen them and
Laban went into Jacobs tent into Leah's
tent and into the two mates tents but he
did not find them then he went out of
Leah's tent and entered Rachel's tent
now Rachel had taken the household idols
put them in the camel saddle and sat on
and Laban searched all about the tent
but did not find them and she said to
her father let it not displease my Lord
that I cannot rise before you for the
manner of women is with me he searched
but did not find the household idols
then Jacob was angry and rebuked Flavin
what is my trespass what is my sin that
you have so hotly pursued me although
you have searched all my things what
part of your household things have you
found set it here before my brethren and
your brethren that they may judge
between us both these twenty years I
have been with you your use and your
female goats have not miscarried their
young and I have not eaten the Rams of
your flock that which was torn by beasts
I did not bring to you I bore the loss
of it you required it from my hand
whether stolen by day or stolen by night
there I was in the day the drought
consumed me and the frost by night and
my sleep departed from my eyes thus I
have been in your house twenty years I
served you 14 years for your two
daughters in six years for your flock
and you have changed my wages ten times
unless the God of my father the God of
Abraham and the fear of Isaac had been
with me surely now you would have sent
me away empty-handed God has seen my
affliction and the labor of my hands and
rebuked you last night these daughters
are my daughters and these children are
my children and this flock is my flock
all that you see is mine what can I do
this day to these my daughters or to
their children whom they have borne now
therefore come let us make a covenant to
you and I and let it be a witness
between you and me
so Jacob took a stone and set it up as a
pillar then Jacob said to his brethren
gather stones and they took stones and
made a heap and they ate there on the
heap
Laban called it jjigae sejahtera
but Jacob called it gal yet this heap is
a witness between you and me this day
therefore its name was called gali it
also Misbah because he said may the Lord
watch between you and me when we are
absent one from another
if you afflict my daughters or if you
take other wives besides my daughters
although no man is with us see God is
witness between you and me here is this
heap and here is this pillar which I
have placed between you and me this heap
is a witness and this pillar is a
witness that I will not pass beyond this
heap to you and you will not pass beyond
this heap and this pillar to me for harm
the God of Abraham the god of Nahar and
the God of their father judged between
us and Jacob swore by the fear of his
father Isaac then Jacob offered a
sacrifice on the mountain and called his
brethren to eat bread
and they ate bread and stayed all night
on the mountain
and early in the morning Laban arose and
kissed his sons and daughters and
blessed them then Laban departed and
returned to his place
you